# iregnet on CRAN

## Project Info

**Project title:** iregnet on CRAN

**URL of project idea page:** [https://github.com/rstats-gsoc/gsoc2019/wiki/iregnet-on-CRAN](https://github.com/rstats-gsoc/gsoc2019/wiki/iregnet-on-CRAN)


## Bio of Student

I am Ao Ni, currently a senior student who major in Applied Statistics at Sun Yat-sen University, China. After graduation, I will study for a master's degree in Computer Science at Johns Hopkins University. I code in Python, C++, R and Swift. During my undergraduate years, I have worked on many Computer Science or Statistics related project, including the development of R Package. 

Survival Analysis is one of my favorite course, that's why I am so excited about this project. Beyond Courses, I have researched on ARIC (The Atherosclerosis Risk in Communities Study). This dataset provide detailed medical history data of over ten thousand of participants, which could be transformed into the interval of certain disease (e.g. peripheral arterial disease). I believe iregnet is the perfect tool to handle this kind of datasets. Equiped with strong coding skills and Statistical knowledge, I would love to work on this project and bring iregnet on CRAN.



## Contact Information

**Student name:** Ao Ni

**Student postal address:** Room 302, Building 3, Hupojiawan Residential Zone, Changxing County, Zhejiang Province, China

**Telephone:** +86 155-2138-9969

**Email:** neo.aoni@gmail.com 

**Other communications channels:** live:neolovepineapple (Skype)





## Student Affiliation 

**Institution:** School of Mathematics, Sun Yat-sen University

**Program:** B.S in Applied Statistics

**Stage of completion:** Graduate at June, 2019

**Contact to verify:** 

Haiyan Lin,      
Teaching Secretary at School of Mathematics, Sun Yat-sen University          
email: mcslhy@mail.sysu.edu.cn



## Schedule Conflicts

I will commit my whole summer to GSoC. There will be no other internships or projects during this summer.

## Mentors
**Mentor names:**

* Toby Dylan Hocking
* Anuj Khare


**Mentor emails:**

* Toby Dylan Hocking (tdhock5@gmail.com)
* Anuj Khare (khareanuj18@gmail.com)

**Have you been in touch with the mentors? When and how?**



## Coding Plan and Method

### Implement a cross validation method on iregnet

In this section, my goal is to implement a cross-validation function to fit an interval regression (i.e. iregnet) by optimizing the lambda parameter. This function calls iregnet repeatedly according to the number of flods. Then a set of validation errors are calculated corresponding to a list of lambda values, which were either manually specified or generated by algorithm. The best lambda will be choosen based on different criterion.

#### Method

This part focus on the theoratical aspect of the implementation. The keys when select the best lambda value by cross validation are error functions and selecting criterion. 

After fit the model on training set and make prediction on validation set, the validation errors are calculated by different error functions. Having searched some of the existing packages, I believe there are three error functions suitable for our project.

**-Squared Hinge Loss**

Squared hinge loss measures how far the predicted log(penalty) values are from the target intervals. To better understand this measurement, I write an R function:

```r
squared.hinge <- function(gt.left, gt.right, pred, margin){
  gap.left <- pred - gt.left
  gap.right <- gt.right - pred
  return(ifelse(gap.left<margin,gap.left-margin,0)+ifelse(gap.right<margin,gap.right-margin,0))
}
```

In this function, ```r gt.left ```





### Write a qualified docs to pass all CRAN checks.


### Implementation of Vignette




















